README.md, before:

# PhotonSlicer

The PhotonSlicer Converts STL (binary) files to Images or PhotonFile. It is programmed in Python 3 and uses Cython, OpenCV and numpy.

---

## Status

Not yet ready:
- PhotonSlicer needs further optimizing for speed (e.g. using Cython). Currently it is about 
    - 3x slower than Anycubic Photon Slicer and 
    - 15x slower than ChituBox Slicer.
- The install packages are rebuild but very large due to unnecessary numpy.core dll's. Need to find a way to exclude these from package.
- Real life test with the produced photon files is necessary.

---
  
## Installation

It has two install files:'PhotonSlicer_Console...msi' with a Command Line Interface and 'PhotonSlicer_GUI...msi' with a graphical interface. The last one is most suitable as plugin for MeshMixer. 

For Windows an easy install package is available. For Linux and OSX you have to install python and some libraries. 

For Linux/MeshMixer user: Since there is only a Windows install file for MeshMixer you should already have wine up and running. So install PhotonSlicer in Wine too. 

---

## Setup MeshMixer
1. Install MeshMixer (Linux users: First install Wine and install MeshMixer in Wine)
2. Download and install 'PhotonSlicer_GUI...msi' to e.g. C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/
3. Open MeshMixer
4. Go to menu File > Preferences (Alt-T)
5. Go to tab Printers
6. Choose Add
7. Fill fields as follows: 
    - Manufacturer: 'Anycubic'
    - Model: 'Photon - MC Rapid Clear' or append your own resin brand/type names
    - Width: '115.00'
    - Depth: '65.00'
    - Height: '155.00'
    - Printer software name : 'Photon Slicer'
    - Printer software path : 'C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/PhotonSlicer.exe'
    - Format of file to ... : 'STL'
    - Command line artuments: '-g True -l 0.05 -o 6 -t 8 -be 90 -bl 8 -p "C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/STLs/photon" -s'      
8. Close window 'Printer Properties'
9. Close window 'Preferences'

You can add an extra 'printer' for each resin / settings combo you need.


## Use MeshMixer
1. Open an STL file, check if fits the build volume and is not below it.
2. Press 'Print' icon on bottom of left toolbar.
3. A progress windows appears.
4. Your photon file is in 'C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/STLs/photon'

If you don't see a progress window and now file is added to 'C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/STLs/photon' check 'C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/log.txt' for error messages.

---

## Functionality under development
- The main focus is speed.
- Since PhotonSlicer was mainly meant as a plugin, mesh editing (hollowing/infill/positioning) will not be developed. Use the functionality of MeshMixer instead!

---

## Command Line Parameters
```
usage: PhotonSlicer.py [-h] -s STLFILENAME [-p PHOTONFILENAME]
                       [-l LAYERHEIGHT] [-r RESCALE] [-t EXPOSURE]
                       [-be BOTTOMEXPOSURE] [-bl BOTTOMLAYERS] [-o OFFTIME]
                       [-g GUI]

required: stlfilename

examples: PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl                         -> ./STLs/Cube.photon
          PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl -p photon -l 0.05       -> ./STLs/Cube.photon
          PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl -p /home/photon -l 0.05 -> /home/Cube.photon
          PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl -p /Sqrs.photon -l 0.05 -> /Sqrs.photon
          PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl -p images -l 0.05    -> ./STLs/Cube/0001.png,..
          PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl -p ./sliced/ -l 0.05 -> ./sliced/0001.png,..

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -s STLFILENAME, --stlfilename STLFILENAME
                        name of (binary) stl file to import
  -p PHOTONFILENAME, --photonfilename PHOTONFILENAME
                        photon file name (ends with '.photon') OR 
                        output directory (ends with '/') for images OR 
                        'photon' as argument to generate photon file with same name OR 
                        'images' to generate images in directory with same name as stl
                        these can be combined e.g. './subdir/photon'
  -l LAYERHEIGHT, --layerheight LAYERHEIGHT
                        layer height in mm
  -r RESCALE, --rescale RESCALE
                        scales model and offset
  -t EXPOSURE, --exposure EXPOSURE
                        normal exposure time (sec)
  -be BOTTOMEXPOSURE, --bottomexposure BOTTOMEXPOSURE
                        exposure time for bottom layers
  -bl BOTTOMLAYERS, --bottomlayers BOTTOMLAYERS
                        nr of layers with exposure for bottom
  -o OFFTIME, --offtime OFFTIME
                        off time between layers (sec)
  -g GUI, --gui GUI     show progress in popup window
```

Commit message:

TKinter needs run in install dir

README.md, after:

# PhotonSlicer

The PhotonSlicer Converts STL (binary) files to Images or PhotonFile. It is programmed in Python 3 and uses OpenCV and numpy.

---

## Status

Not yet ready:
- PhotonSlicer was optimized for speed using Cython. Check if it is comparable to Anycubic Photon Slicer.
- The install packages are rebuild but very large to unnecessary numpy.core dll's. Find a to exclude these from package.
- Real life test with the produced photon files have to be done.

---
  
## Installation

It has two install files:'PhotonSlicer_Console...msi' with a Command Line Interface and 'PhotonSlicer_GUI...msi' with a graphical interface. The last one is most suitable as plugin for MeshMixer. 

For Windows an easy install package is available. For Linux and OSX you have to install python and some libraries. 

For Linux/MeshMixer user: Since there is only a Windows install file for MeshMixer you should already have wine up and running. So install PhotonSlicer in Wine too. 

---

## Setup MeshMixer
1. Install MeshMixer (Linux users: First install Wine and install MeshMixer in Wine)
2. Download and install 'PhotonSlicer_GUI...msi' to e.g. C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/
3. Open MeshMixer
4. Go to menu File > Preferences (Alt-T)
5. Go to tab Printers
6. Choose Add
7. Fill fields as follows: 
    - Manufacturer: 'Anycubic'
    - Model: 'Photon - MC Rapid Clear' or append your own resin brand/type names
    - Width: '115.00'
    - Depth: '65.00'
    - Height: '155.00'
    - Printer software name : 'Photon Slicer'
    - Printer software path : 'C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/PhotonSlicer.exe'
    - Format of file to ... : 'STL'
    - Command line artuments: '-g True -l 0.05 -o 6 -t 8 -be 90 -bl 8 -p "C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/STLs/photon" -s'      
8. Close window 'Printer Properties'
9. Close window 'Preferences'

You can add an extra 'printer' for each resin / settings combo you need.


## Use MeshMixer
1. Open an STL file, check if fits the build volume and is not below it.
2. Press 'Print' icon on bottom of left toolbar.
3. A progress windows appears.
4. Your photon file is in 'C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/STLs/photon'

If you don't see a progress window and now file is added to 'C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/STLs/photon' check 'C:/Program Files/PhotonSlicer/log.txt' for error messages.

---

## Functionality under development
- The main focus is speed.
- Since PhotonSlicer was mainly meant as a plugin, mesh editing (hollowing/infill/positioning) will not be developed. Use the functionality of MeshMixer instead!

---

## Command Line Parameters
```
usage: PhotonSlicer.py [-h] -s STLFILENAME [-p PHOTONFILENAME]
                       [-l LAYERHEIGHT] [-r RESCALE] [-t EXPOSURE]
                       [-be BOTTOMEXPOSURE] [-bl BOTTOMLAYERS] [-o OFFTIME]
                       [-g GUI]

required: stlfilename

examples: PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl                         -> ./STLs/Cube.photon
          PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl -p photon -l 0.05       -> ./STLs/Cube.photon
          PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl -p /home/photon -l 0.05 -> /home/Cube.photon
          PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl -p /Sqrs.photon -l 0.05 -> /Sqrs.photon
          PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl -p images -l 0.05    -> ./STLs/Cube/0001.png,..
          PhotonSlicer.exe -s ./STLs/Cube.stl -p ./sliced/ -l 0.05 -> ./sliced/0001.png,..

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  -s STLFILENAME, --stlfilename STLFILENAME
                        name of (binary) stl file to import
  -p PHOTONFILENAME, --photonfilename PHOTONFILENAME
                        photon file name (ends with '.photon') OR 
                        output directory (ends with '/') for images OR 
                        'photon' as argument to generate photon file with same name OR 
                        'images' to generate images in directory with same name as stl
                        these can be combined e.g. './subdir/photon'
  -l LAYERHEIGHT, --layerheight LAYERHEIGHT
                        layer height in mm
  -r RESCALE, --rescale RESCALE
                        scales model and offset
  -t EXPOSURE, --exposure EXPOSURE
                        normal exposure time (sec)
  -be BOTTOMEXPOSURE, --bottomexposure BOTTOMEXPOSURE
                        exposure time for bottom layers
  -bl BOTTOMLAYERS, --bottomlayers BOTTOMLAYERS
                        nr of layers with exposure for bottom
  -o OFFTIME, --offtime OFFTIME
                        off time between layers (sec)
  -g GUI, --gui GUI     show progress in popup window
```
